what is an algorithm
an algorithm is an unambiguous specification of how to solve a class of problems
define a socket
A socket provides connection between two applications. Each endpoint of a communication is a socket.
explain XSS
Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attacks are a type of injection, in which malicious scripts are injected into otherwise benign and trusted websites.
what do you mean by Dijkstra's algorithm
An algorithm for finding the shortest paths between nodes in a graph, which may represent, for example, road networks
how do you explain binary trees
a binary tree is a tree data structure in which each node has at most two children, which are referred to as the left child and the right child.
What does the internet do
The Internet is a global network of billions of computers and other electronic devices
define internet
a global computer network providing a variety of information and communication facilities, consisting of interconnected networks using standardized communication protocols.
What is HTTPS
Definition: HTTPS stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure. It is the protocol where encrypted HTTP data is transferred over a secure connection.
What is Euclids algorithm
A method of finding the greatest common divisor of two numbers by dividing the larger by the smaller, the smaller by the remainder, the first remainder by the second remainder, and so on until exact division is obtained whence the greatest common divisor is the exact divisor
explain data structures
In computer science, a data structure is a data organization, management, and storage format that enables efficient access and modification.
what do algorithms do
Algorithms are always unambiguous and are used as specifications for performing calculations, data processing, automated reasoning, and other tasks
why do we need network security
good network security system helps business reduce the risk of falling victim of data theft and sabotage.
What is spyware
Spyware is a type of malicious software -- or malware -- that is installed on a computing device without the end user's knowledge.
Explain Servers
A server is a computer that provides data to other computers. It may serve data to systems on a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN) over the Internet.
What does NPM do
npm is the package manager for the Node JavaScript platform. It puts modules in place so that node can find them, and manages dependency conflicts intelligently.
What is the advantage of Flutter
Flutter allows hot reload that is useful in debugging and fast development
What is Flutter
Flutter SDK is Google's UI toolkit for crafting beautiful, natively compiled applications for mobile, web, and desktop from a single codebase.
What does swift do
Swift is a powerful and intuitive programming language for macOS, iOS, watchOS, tvOS and beyond.
What is the advantage of NodeJS
NodeJS is a light, scalable, and cross-platform way to execute code, and it is cross-platform.
what is nlp
Natural language processing is broadly defined as the automated manipulation of natural language, like speech or text.
Give one usage of NLP
NLP can be used for sentiment analysis
Give one usage of AI
AI is useful for process automation and automated cognitive insight
Give one usage of ML
ML is used in both AI and NLP. Virtual assistants use all three
What is RNN
A recurrent neural network (RNN) is a class of artificial neural networks where connections between nodes form a directed graph along a temporal sequence.
What is LSTM
LSTMs are a special kind of RNN, capable of learning long-term dependencies
Advantage of LSTMs
Relative insensitivity to gap length gives an advantage to LSTM over alternative RNNs.
Define Hidden Markov Model
a statistical Markov model in which the system being modeled is assumed to be a Markov process with unobservable ("hidden") states
What are naive bayes classifiers
Naive Bayes classifiers are a collection of classification algorithms based on Bayes' Theorem. 
What is a lemma
The base or dictionary form of a word obtained after removing inflections is a lemma
Define lemmatization
In lemmatization, normalization is done, the words are replaced by the root words or the words with similar context.
What does GridSearchCV do?
It helps to loop through predefined hyperparameters and fit your estimator (model) on your training set. From here best params can be extracted.
What does RandomizedSearchCV do?
Instead of looping through every iteration of hyperparameters, RandomizedSearchCV randomly chooses iterations
Define text preprocessing
The process of transforming text to a more digestible form for machines to understand.
What is neural NLP
The use of representation learning and deep neural network-style machines in language processing
Define corpus
A corpus is a langauge resource consisting of large and unstructured texts
Define Parsing
Parsing or Syntax Analysis is the process of analysing a string of symbols conforming to the rules of formal grammar
How would you explain a sentence diagram
A sentence diagram is a pictorial representation of the grammatical structure of a sentence
Explain Machine Translation
Machine Translation is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates use of of software to translate between langauges
Define Regular Expressions
RegEx is a sequence of characters that define a search pattern.
How would you define web scraping
Web scraping, also called web data extraction, is the process of extracting or scraping data from websites.
How would you explain tokenization
Given a character sequence and a defined document unit, tokenization is the task of chopping it up into pieces, called token.
Define named entity recognition
NER is a subtask of information extraction that locates and classifies named entities like people
What is a GRU
Gated Recurrent Unit aims to solve the vanishing gradient problem which comes with a standard recurrent neural network
Define Moravec's Paradox
Reasoning (which is high-level in humans) requires very little computation, but sensorimotor skills (comparatively low-level in humans) require enormous computational resources.
What is Nouvelle AI
This AI approach aims to produce AI with intelligence levels similar to insects
Define POS tagging
The process that  reads text in some language and assigns parts of speech to each word,such as noun, verb, adjective, etc.,
What is chunking in NLP
Chunking in NLP is Changing a perception by moving a “chunk”, or a group of bits of information, in the direction of a Deductive or Inductive conclusion through the use of language.
Define stop words in NLP
words that are so commonly used that they carry very little useful information.
What is N-gram
In the fields of computational linguistics and probability, an n-gram is a contiguous sequence of n items from a given sample of text or speech.
Define distortion in NLP
Distortion occurs when something is mistaken for that which it is not, when things are incorrectly included in our Internal Representations.
What is data-structure?
Data structure is a way of defining, storing & retriving of data in a structural & systemetic way. A data structure may contain different type of data items.
What are various data-structures available?
Data structure availability may vary by programming languages. Commonly available data structures are list, arrays, stack, queues, graph, tree etc.
What is algorithm?
Algorithm is a step by step procedure, which defines a set of instructions to be executed in certain order to get the desired output.
Why we need to do algorithm analysis?
A problem can be solved in more than one ways. So, many solution algorithms can be derived for a given problem. We analyze available algorithms to find and implement the best suitable algorithm.
What are the criteria of algorithm analysis?
An algorithm are generally analyzed on two factors − time and space. That is, how much execution time and how much extra space required by the algorithm.
What is asymptotic analysis of an algorithm?
Asymptotic analysis of an algorithm, refers to defining the mathematical boundation/framing of its run-time performance. Using asymptotic analysis, we can very well conclude the best case, average case and worst case scenario of an algorithm.
What are asymptotic notations?
Asymptotic analysis can provide three levels of mathematical binding of execution time of an algorithm −
What is linear data structure?
A linear data-structure has sequentially arranged data items. The next time can be located in the next memory address. It is stored and accessed in a sequential manner.  Array and list are example of linear data structure.
What are common operations that can be performed on a data-structure?
The following operations are commonly performed on any data-structure −
Briefly explain the approaches to develop algorithms.
There are three commonly used approaches to develop algorithms −
Give some examples greedy algorithms.
The below given problems find their solution using greedy algorithm approach −
What are some examples of divide and conquer algorithms?
The below given problems find their solution using divide and conquer algorithm approach −
What are some examples of dynamic programming algorithms?
The below given problems find their solution using divide and conquer algorithm approach −
What is a linked-list?
A linked-list is a list of data-items connected with links i.e. pointers or references. Most modern high-level programming language does not provide the feature of directly accessing memory location, therefore, linked-list are not supported in them or available in form of inbuilt functions.
What is stack?
In data-structure, stack is an Abstract Data Type (ADT) used to store and retrieve values in Last In First Out method.
Why do we use stacks?
Stacks follows LIFO method and addition and retrieval of a data item takes only Ο(n) time. Stacks are used where we need to access data in the reverse order or their arrival. Stacks are used commonly in recursive function calls, expression parsing, depth first traversal of graphs etc.
What operations can be performed on stacks?
The below operations can be performed on a stack −
What is a queue in data-structure?
Queue is an abstract data structure, somewhat similar to stack. In contrast to stack, queue is opened at both end. One end is always used to insert data (enqueue) and the other is used to remove data (dequeue). Queue follows First-In-First-Out methodology, i.e., the data item stored first will be accessed first.
Why do we use queues?
As queues follows FIFO method, they are used when we need to work on data-items in exact sequence of their arrival. Every operating system maintains queues of various processes. Priority queues and breadth first traversal of graphs are some examples of queues.
What operations can be performed on Queues?
The below operations can be performed on a stack −
What is linear searching?
Linear search tries to find an item in a sequentially arranged data type. These sequentially arranged data items known as array or list, are accessible in incrementing memory location. Linear search compares expected data item with each of data items in list or array. The average case time complexity of linear search is Ο(n) and worst case complexity is Ο(n2). Data in target arrays/lists need not to be sorted.
What is binary search?
A binary search works only on sorted lists or arrays. This search selects the middle which splits the entire list into two parts. First the middle is compared.
What is bubble sort and how bubble sort works?
Bubble sort is comparison based algorithm in which each pair of adjacent elements is compared and elements are swapped if they are not in order. Because the time complexity is Ο(n2), it is not suitable for large set of data.
Tell me something about 'insertion sort'?
Insertion sort divides the list into two sub-list, sorted and unsorted. It takes one element at time and finds it appropriate location in sorted sub-list and insert there.  The output after insertion is a sorted sub-list. It iteratively works on all the elements of unsorted sub-list and inserts them to sorted sub-list in order.
What is selection sort?
Selection sort is in-place sorting technique. It divides the data set into two sub-lists: sorted and unsorted. Then it selects the minimum element from unsorted sub-list and places it into the sorted list. This iterates unless all the elements from unsorted sub-list are consumed into sorted sub-list.
How insertion sort and selection sorts are different?
Both sorting techniques maintains two sub-lists, sorted and unsorted and both take one element at a time and places it into sorted sub-list. Insertion sort works on the current element in hand and places it in the sorted array at appropriate location maintaining the properties of insertion sort. Whereas, selection sort searches the minimum from the unsorted sub-list and replaces it with the current element in hand.
What is merge sort and how it works?
Merge sort is sorting algorithm based on divide and conquer programming approach. It keeps on dividing the list into smaller sub-list until all sub-list has only 1 element.  And then it merges them in a sorted way until all sub-lists are consumed. It has run-time complexity of Ο(n log n) and it needs Ο(n) auxiliary space.
What is shell sort?
Shell sort can be said a variant of insertion sort. Shell sort divides the list into smaller sublist based on some gap variable and then each sub-list is sorted using insertion sort. In best cases, it can perform upto Ο(n log n).
How quick sort works?
Quick sort uses divide and conquer approach. It divides the list in smaller 'partitions' using 'pivot'. The values which are smaller than the pivot are arranged in the left partition and greater values are arranged in the right partition. Each partition is recursively sorted using quick sort.
What is a graph?
A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links. The interconnected objects are represented by points termed as vertices, and the links that connect the vertices are called edges.
How depth first traversal works?
Depth First Search algorithm(DFS) traverses a graph in a depthward motion and uses a stack to remember to get the next vertex to start a search when a dead end occurs in any iteration.
How breadth first traversal works?
Breadth First Search algorithm(BFS) traverses a graph in a breadthwards motion and uses a queue to remember to get the next vertex to start a search when a dead end occurs in any iteration.
What is a tree?
A tree is a minimally connected graph having no loops and circuits.
What is a binary tree?
A binary tree has a special condition that each node can have two children at maximum.
What is a binary search tree?
A binary search tree is a binary tree with a special provision where a node's left child must have value less than its parent's value and node's right child must have value greater than it's parent value.
What is tree traversal?
Tree traversal is a process to visit all the nodes of a tree. Because, all nodes are connected via edges (links) we always start from the root (head) node. There are three ways which we use to traverse a tree −
What is an AVL Tree?
AVL trees are height balancing binary search tree. AVL tree checks the height of left and right sub-trees and assures that the difference is not more than 1. This difference is called Balance Factor.
What is a spanning tree?
A spanning tree is a subset of Graph G, which has all the vertices covered with minimum possible number of edges. A spanning tree does not have cycles and it can not be disconnected.
How many spanning trees can a graph has?
It depends on how connected the graph is. A complete undirected graph can have maximum nn-1 number of spanning trees, where n is number of nodes.
How Kruskal's algorithm works?
This algorithm treats the graph as a forest and every node it as an individual tree. A tree connects to another only and only if it has least cost among all available options and does not violate MST properties.
How Prim's algorithm finds spanning tree?
Prim's algorithm treats the nodes as a single tree and keeps on adding new nodes to the spanning tree from the given graph.
What is a minimum spanning tree (MST)?
In a weighted graph, a minimum spanning tree is a spanning tree that has minimum weight that all other spanning trees of the same graph.
What is a heap in data structure?
Heap is a special balanced binary tree data structure where root-node key is compared with its children and arranged accordingly. A min-heap, a parent node has key value less than its childs and a max-heap parent node has value greater than its childs.
What is a recursive function?
A recursive function is one which calls itself, directly or calls a function that in turn calls it. Every recursive function follows the recursive properties − base criteria where functions stops calling itself and progressive approach where the functions tries to meet the base criteria in each iteration.
What is tower of hanoi?
Tower of Hanoi, is a mathematical puzzle which consists of three tower (pegs) and more than one rings. All rings are of different size and stacked upon each other where the large disk is always below the small disk. The aim is to move the tower of disk from one peg to another, without breaking its properties.
What is fibonacci series?
Fibonacci Series generates subsequent number by adding two previous numbers. For example − 0 1 1 2 3 5 8 13.
What is hashing?
Hashing is a technique to convert a range of key values into a range of indexes of an array. By using hash tables, we can create an associative data storage where data index can be find by providing its key values.
What is interpolation search technique?
Interpolation search is an improved variant of binary search. This search algorithm works on the probing position of required value.
What is the prefix and post fix notation of (a + b) * (c + d) ?
Prefix Notation  − * + a b + c d
